# Overview

This is a SketchUp extension for exporting FBX or Collada models to be used with
Colossal Order's Cities: Skylines.

Cities: Skylines uses the Unity engine which require assets to have a flat
model hierarchy. Unfortunately SketchUp's FBX exporter adds an extra node even
if all the faces are in the root of the model.

This extension patches the exported FBX model by trying to remove the extra
node.

It also checks the model for basic requirements before exporting as well as
setting the FBX exporter required for the asset to be imported correctly.

Exported Collada files will import rotated and scaled. This extension will
fix this during export.

Additionally it includes a tool to layout a grid to aid in the modelling process.

## Beta Version

Note that this is a beta version and might fail to properly patch the exported
model.

# Requirements

* SketchUp Pro 2014 or newer
* Windows or OS X

# FBX Exporter Settings

* Export only current selection: true
* Triangulate all faces: true
* Export two-sided faces: false
* Separate disconnected faces: false
* Export texture maps: false
* Swap YZ coordinates (Y is up): true
* Units: Centimeters

# DAE Exporter Settings

Note: During export the Model will be scaled and rotated to fit the in-game
needs!

* Export two-sided faces: false
* Export edges: false
* Triangulate all faces: true
* Export only current selection: true
* Export Hidden Geometry: false
* Preserve Component Hierarchies: false
* Export Texture Maps: true
* Preserve Credits: false


## Units

The [wiki](http://www.skylineswiki.com/Asset_Editor) indicate that the units
should be meters, however, exporting from SketchUp seem to require export units
set to Centimetres. (It does not matter what your Model Info > Units settings
are as long as you model 1:1 scale.)

It appear Unity do indeed use meters, but some exporters scale up by 100 by
default. Unity's default import is therefore set to 0.01 which also appear to be
the case with Cities: Skylines.

# Style Guide

This project follows the
[GitHub Ruby styleguide](https://github.com/styleguide/ruby).

# License

This project is licensed under the MIT license.
